palera1n jailbreak.md, before:

# palera1n jailbreak 2023

palera1n is one of the current tools used to jailbreak (selected) iPhones.

The official website > [palera1n](https://github.com/palera1n/palera1n)

The documents can be found > [ios.cfw.guide](https://ios.cfw.guide/)

Specific information about setting up rootful jailbreak > [Rootful jailbreak](https://ios.cfw.guide/archived-palera1n-rootful/)


[ Pre-requsites ]
1. macOS on desktop or laptop
2. python3 installed (either by macOS or homebrew)
3. iPhone supported by palera1n
   a. Lesser than 64GB > Recommend rootless as you won't have space for the additional filesystem
   b. 64GB or greater > Recommend rootful. You can rejailbreak from rootful to rootless with a simple reboot but not from rootless to rootful. You will need to remove rootless before installing as rootful.
5. A genuine Apple USB-A to Lightning cable


[ Installing palera1n ]
Finder > Applications > Utilities > Terminal
`mkdir palera1n && cd palera1n`

Go to [palera1n releases](https://github.com/palera1n/palera1n/releases) and download the latest one named `palera1n-macos-universal`

Move the file into the palera1n directory above.

Now make the file executable

`chmod +x palera1n-macos-universal`

Then rename it to palera1n

`mv palera1n-macos-universal palera1n`


Now you're set.

## Jailbreaking the iPhone

Decide whether would you want a rootful or rootless jailbreak.

For rootful jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n  -c -f`

For rootless jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`./palera1n`

## How to re-jailbreak

For rootful jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n  -f`

For rootless jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n`


In both rootful or rootless jailbreaks, you will experience a hang on the phone (A9 or below) and when the terminal is showing Booting PongOS
1. Keep the usb cable connected, hit Ctrl+C on the terminal and 
2. Rerun the same palera1n command with the same options.

Notes: For rootful jailbreak, it will take at least 15 minutes to build the fakefs. So let the phone run.

Commit message:

Update palera1n jailbreak.md
Updated instructions for removing rootless and rootful jailbreaks using palera1n.

palera1n jailbreak.md, after:

# palera1n jailbreak 2023

palera1n is one of the current tools used to jailbreak (selected) iPhones.

The official website > [palera1n](https://github.com/palera1n/palera1n)

The documents can be found > [ios.cfw.guide](https://ios.cfw.guide/)

Specific information about setting up rootful jailbreak > [Rootful jailbreak](https://ios.cfw.guide/archived-palera1n-rootful/)


[ Pre-requsites ]
1. macOS on desktop or laptop
2. python3 installed (either by macOS or homebrew)
3. iPhone supported by palera1n
   a. Lesser than 64GB > Recommend rootless as you won't have space for the additional filesystem
   b. 64GB or greater > Recommend rootful. You can rejailbreak from rootful to rootless with a simple reboot but not from rootless to rootful. You will need to remove rootless before installing as rootful.
   c. For rootful jb, you'll need version v2.0.0-beta.7 or below, else rootful is disabled in newer versions.
5. A genuine Apple USB-A to Lightning cable


[ Installing palera1n ]
Finder > Applications > Utilities > Terminal
`mkdir palera1n && cd palera1n`

Go to [palera1n releases](https://github.com/palera1n/palera1n/releases) and download the latest one named `palera1n-macos-universal`

Move the file into the palera1n directory above.

Now make the file executable

`chmod +x palera1n-macos-universal`

Then rename it to palera1n

`mv palera1n-macos-universal palera1n`


Now you're set.

## Jailbreaking the iPhone

Decide whether would you want a rootful or rootless jailbreak.

For rootful jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n  -c -f`

For rootless jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`./palera1n`

## How to re-jailbreak

A. For rootful jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n  -f`

B. For rootless jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n`


In both rootful or rootless jailbreaks, you will experience a hang on the phone (A9 or below) and when the terminal is showing Booting PongOS
1. Keep the usb cable connected, hit Ctrl+C on the terminal and 
2. Rerun the same palera1n command with the same options.

Notes: For rootful jailbreak, it will take at least 15 minutes to build the fakefs. So let the phone run.

## How to remove jailbreak

A. For rootful jailbreak
Get into terminal (on the mac) and run the following
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n --force-revert -f`
Follow on-screen instructions.
Upon the phone rebooting, run `./palera1n --force-revert` one more time to remove the jailbreak completely.

B. For rootless jailbreak
Still in Terminal or go to Terminal (Finder > Applications > Utilities)
`cd palera1n`
`./palera1n --force-revert`
Follow on-screen instructions. You may need to run `./palera1n --force-revert` one more time, after the first reboot, to remove the jailbreak completely.
